# Comp790-166: Computational Biology (Spring 2022) 

## Details
Instructor: Natalie Stanley

Email: natalies@cs.unc.edu

Time: Tuesday/Thursday 9:30am-10:45am, Spring Semester 2021

Office Hours: Thursday 11am-noon on our class zoom link and by appointment. 

Location: **Upate Jan 18: If you have not receieved my welcome email, please send me an email for the zoom link**

## Description
Modern, high-throughput assays allow us to efficiently profile a variety of biological processes to gain a systems-level understanding of health and disease. Recent technologies and experimental assays generate an abundance of detailed information that needs to be extracted, summarized, and interpreted. In this course we will discuss the methodology used to extract signal from (e.g. process, engineer features from, combine, etc.) data generated by some of the most cutting-edge experimental paradigms, such as single-cell assays and imaging. We will go into detail about the methods and theory underlying bioinformatics algorithms, originating from numerical linear algebra, graph-signal processing, and machine learning. While computational biology is a very broad field, we will focus here on applications in single-cell biology (CyTOF, single-cell RNA sequencing), multiomics/multi-modal analysis, systems immunology, and benchmarking. For each class of algorithms introduced for some task on biological data, we will also go over necessary theory and mathematical intuition. The course covers the foundations for biomedical data science and does not assume any biological knowledge.

## Prerequistes
Strong programming. Comfortable with linear algebra and basic probabilty. Please do not worry if you don't have any background in biology. Any relevant concepts will be introduced. Please feel free to talk to me about any of these prerequistes. 

## Course Structure
This course will be mostly lecture-based with two homework assignments and a course project. I will provide ideas for several publicly available biological datasets and open problems for you to work on for these projects. Overall, the project is intended to give you an opportunity to implement/apply methodology discussed in the papers that we will discuss together. The final project writeup will also give you practice writing up results and communicating ideas. You are welcome to work on teams for this project.

Most of the lectures will be based around several papers. To benefit your own understanding, I will provide a set of questions that should be answered for one of the papers discussed in each lecture.

# Schedule

Note that this is preliminary. Some topics may take (on average) 1 day longer than planned. **I reserve the right to correct typos in the notes up to 1hr before our class meeting.** 
